feat: Add `custom_field` `storeApiAware` field (#5981)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-01-02-add-custom-field-store-api-aware.md

---
title: Add custom_field storeApiAware field
author: Benjamin Wittwer
author_email: benjamin.wittwer@a-k-f.de
author_github: akf-bw
---
# Core
* Added `storeApiAware` property and its corresponding getter and setter methods to the `Shopware\Core\System\CustomField\CustomFieldEntity`
* Added `ResetInterface` to the `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder`, to reset the class state after request
* Changed `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder` to fetch blocked custom fields & exclude them from the store API response
___
# Administration

> * Added `sw_custom_field_detail_modal_store_api_aware` & `sw_custom_field_detail_modal_allow_cart_expose` blocks to `sw-custom-field-detail.html.twig`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `sw_custom_field_detail_modal_store_api_aware` and `sw_custom_field_detail_modal_allow_cart_expose` blocks to `sw-custom-field-detail.html.twig`
```

---
title: Add custom_field storeApiAware field
author: Benjamin Wittwer
author_email: benjamin.wittwer@a-k-f.de
author_github: akf-bw
---
# Core

> * Added `store_api_aware` (`storeApiAware`) bool field to the `custom_field` entity by migration (default value: `true`)

Reviewer: I am not sure, if we should default to `true` :thinking: that would mean, that suddenly custom fields are exposed through the store-API, right? sounds not like something we should do

Reviewer: additionally this could be left out, I guess. it is already clear enough by the sentences below

Author: > I am not sure, if we should default to `true` 🤔 that would mean, that suddenly custom fields are exposed through the store-API, right? sounds not like something we should do

That is the problem I try to solve with this PR, currently every CustomField is always visible in store api responses

Reviewer: oh okay, wow :sweat_smile: 

then everything is fine!

Reviewer: I should have read your description properly :see_no_evil: My apologies!

> * Changed `Shopware\Core\System\CustomField\CustomFieldDefinition` to add the `store_api_aware` (`storeApiAware`) bool field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `store_api_aware` (`storeApiAware`) bool field to the `Shopware\Core\System\CustomField\CustomFieldDefinition`
```

> * Changed `Shopware\Core\System\CustomField\CustomFieldEntity` to add the `storeApiAware` field + get & set methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `storeApiAware` property and its corresponding getter and setter methods to the `Shopware\Core\System\CustomField\CustomFieldEntity`
```

> * Changed `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder` to add the missing `ResetInterface` & `reset` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added `ResetInterface to the `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder`
```

the why is missing, imo

> * Changed `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder` to fetch blocked custom fields & exclude them from the store api response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changed `Shopware\Core\System\SalesChannel\Api\StructEncoder` to fetch blocked custom fields and exclude them from the store API response
```

___
# Administration

> * Changed `src/module/sw-settings-custom-field/component/sw-custom-field-detail/sw-custom-field-detail.html.twig` to add the `storeApiAware` field in the `sw_custom_field_detail_modal_store_api_aware` block

Reviewer: I am not sure, if we need it that detailed. One sentence like: "Added new this and that" should be enough
